OSDOCS-8646: Rewriting introduction to networking (ContentX) (#87228)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-understanding-networking-dns-terms.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/understanding-networking.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-understanding-networking-dns-terms_{context}"]
= Key DNS terms

* CoreDNS: CoreDNS is the DNS server and provides name resolution for services and pods.

* DNS names: Services are assigned DNS names based on their namespace and name. For example, a service named `my-service` in the `default` namespace would have the DNS name `my-service.default.svc.cluster.local`.

> * Domain names: Domain names are the human-friendly names that we use to access websites and services, such as example.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Domain names: Domain names are the human-friendly names that we use to access websites and services, such as `example.com`.
```

Author: done

> * Domain names: Domain names are the human-friendly names that we use to access websites and services, such as `example.com`.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I like the "we".

```suggestion
* Domain names: Domain names are the human-friendly names used to access websites and services, such as `example.com`.
```

Author: Ugh, agreed. That slipped in from my notes.

> * IP addresses: IP addresses are numerical labels assigned to each device that is connected to a computer network that uses IP for communication. An example of an IP address is 192.0.2.1.

Author: Done, thanks

> * IP addresses: IP addresses are numerical labels assigned to each device that is connected to a computer network that uses IP for communication. An example of an IPv4 address is `192.0.2.1`. An example of an IPv6 address is `2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334`.

Reviewer 2: Too many "that"s for my taste. 

```suggestion
* IP addresses: IP addresses are numerical labels assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses IP for communication. An example of an IPv4 address is `192.0.2.1`. An example of an IPv6 address is `2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334`.
```

* DNS servers: DNS servers are specialized servers that store DNS records. These records map domain names to IP addresses. When you type a domain name into your browser, your computer contacts a DNS server to find the corresponding IP address.

> * Resolution process: A DNS query is sent to a DNS resolver, which then contacts a series of DNS servers to find the IP address associated with the domain name. The resolver will try using the name with a series of domains, such as `<namespace>.svc.cluster.local`, `svc.cluster.local`, and `cluster.local`. It stops at the first match. The IP address is returned to your browser and then connects to the web server using the IP address.

Reviewer: "It" is a vague referent given the nouns mentioned.  Maybe "it" = "resolver"?

Author: done, thanks
